In the 'RefinedDatasetHW2' tab, I have removed some of the attributes that I wasn't planning to use for this homework or that I thought to be irrelevant towards this data analysis. Created some additional derivated attributes that could give better insights. There were a couple of data items that were missing, amount of useable electric power produced by the satellite and planned operational lifetime of the satellite. I did not want to fill both the missing items with a some data, since it may alter the actual results. The main idea of this analysis was to use simple tables and graphs to get a generic picture of Satellite launches since 1974. I have tried to use pre-attentive attributes of visual perception while creating my graphs.

I have used conditional formatting using color scales and data graphs to study the correlation of 'Orbit type' of the satellite with their 'mass', 'life span' and 'power generation'. Low earth orbit (LEO) and Elliptical orbit satellites are less heavy and produces lesser wattage in power compared to Geo stationary or medium orbit satellites. 

The 'Timeline' tab displays the table and a line graph to show the increase in the number of satellites in the orbit since the first launch until April of this year. I thought the line graph would give a very clear visual perception to show the increase of satellites during the given timeline. It was noticed that there has been a sudden spike in the launches since 2017. A closer look revealed that US satellite launches quadrupled since that time, attributed to SpaceX and PlanetLabs

The 'Owner' tab shows the studies about the satellite owners using different tables and graphs. It gives a drill down based on the country, owner, type of the owner and purpose of the satellite. Here I have used a tree map to show the country share of satellites. The idea was to give a big picture to show the big players in this field.

The 'Contractors' tab takes a closer look on the contractors; the manufacturer of the satellite and the launcher of the satellite. It also studies about the rocket used for launching. Falcon9 of SpaceX and PSLV of ISRO tops the list with most launches, which carries relatively smaller payloads.
